net: lib: azure_iot_hub: Rework and integrate Azure SDK for C (#8220)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/networking/azure_iot_hub.rst

The connection to Azure IoT Hub with MQTT is secured using TLS.
For testing purposes, see `Creating Azure IoT Hub certificates`_ for the steps to create certificates and a private key for the leaf device, and to register the generated test root certificate to be used with an IoT hub.

The Azure IoT Hub library requires the provisioning of the following certificates and private key for a successful TLS connection:

> 1. `Baltimore CyberTrust Root Certificate`_ - Server certificate, used to verify the server's certificate while connecting.

Reviewer: Shouldn't DigiCert Global Root G2 also be a requirement in this list?

Reviewer 2: It's not required, just recommended right now: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/internet-of-things-blog/azure-iot-tls-critical-changes-are-almost-here-and-why-you/ba-p/2393169 ... but yes, it would be good to mention it. This is mentioned in line 47 below.

Reviewer: Yes, but when Microsoft plan to stop using the Baltimore certificates in about a year, I think it would be smart to just tell everyone how they store both certificates on the device as the default procedure. Having it as a separate note makes no sense in my opinion, as our explanation will be less clear on what exact steps to do and it will be more likely some customers doesn't do it.

Author: I think the note stands out quite well since its marked `important`. I could expand on the note to include a recommendation that the second sec tag :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SECONDARY_SEC_TAG` should be populated with the baltimore certificates. If you think that is sufficient enough.

Author: Updated the note to include the recommendation.

The connection to Azure IoT Hub with MQTT is secured using TLS.
For testing purposes, see `Creating Azure IoT Hub certificates`_ for the steps to create certificates and a private key for the leaf device, and to register the generated test root certificate to be used with an IoT hub.

> The Azure IoT Hub library requires the provisioning of the following certificates and private key for a successful TLS connection:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Azure IoT Hub library requires provisioning of the following certificates and private key for a successful TLS connection:
```

1. `Baltimore CyberTrust Root Certificate`_ - Server certificate, used to verify the server's certificate while connecting.
#. Public device certificate - generated by the procedures described in `Creating Azure IoT Hub certificates`_ , used by Azure IoT Hub to authenticate the device.
#. Private key of the device.

.. important::
   Azure has started the process of migrating their IoT Hub and DPS server certificates from `Baltimore CyberTrust Root Certificate`_ to `DigiCert Global Root G2`_.

>    Azure advises that all devices should have both Baltimore CyberTrust Root and DigiCert Global Root G2 certificates to avoid disruption of service during the transition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Azure advises to have both Baltimore CyberTrust Root and DigiCert Global Root G2 certificates for all devices to avoid disruption of service during the transition.
```

   Refer to `Azure IoT TLS: Critical changes`_ for updated information and timeline.

>    Due to this its recommended to provision the DigiCert Root G2 certificate to a secondary security tag set by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SEC_TAG` option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Due to this, it is recommended to provision the DigiCert Root G2 certificate to a secondary security tag set by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SEC_TAG` option.
```

>    This ensures that the device is able to connect after the transition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This ensures that the device can connect after the transition.
```

#. Build and program the :ref:`at_client_sample` sample to the nRF9160-based device as explained in :ref:`gs_programming`.
#. Launch the `LTE Link Monitor`_ application, which is part of `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
#. Click :guilabel:`Certificate manager` located at the top right corner.
#. Copy the server root certificate into the ``CA certificate`` entry.
#. Copy and paste the device certificate and the key created using the scripts located in `Creating Azure IoT Hub certificates`_, into the respective entries (``Client certificate``, ``Private key``).
#. Select a desired security tag (any positive integer in the range 0 to 2147483647) and click :guilabel:`Update certificates`.

.. note::
   The chosen security tag while provisioning the certificates must be same as the security tag configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SEC_TAG` option.

.. note::

>    If more than one root server certificate is used, the second one can be provisioned to a different security tag and configured in the application using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SECONDARY_SEC_TAG`.

Reviewer: Should the second root certificate also contain the same «Client certificate» and «Private key»? Or can those be empty for the second root CA?

Reviewer 2: Root certificates never contain client certificates or private keys.

Reviewer: I meant in the UI. It looks like they are stored in the same security tag:
![Screenshot 2022-08-10 at 10 11 59](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/149725/183850336-fa1e2ff3-5974-4a68-a8a8-324fe56da881.png)

When thinking more about it, is the server root certificate only used to validate the server's authenticity? It doesn't make sense that the client certificates generated for test purposes is signed by a public root CA. From the UI it looks like it has something to do with the client certificates.

Reviewer 2: Yes, they go in the same secTag. The root certificate is part of the `CA certificate`, which can contain multiple certificates (root + CA root + intermediate CA), and yes it's needed to verify the endpoint authenticity.

Author: I've asked internally if it is sufficient enough to only store a new CA into the second sec tag. Both the primary and secondary sec tags are passed into the modem in a sec tag list. So I wouldn't be surprised if all certificates are handled in the same context on the modem.

Author: It is sufficient to provision the DigiCert certificate to the secondary slot to be able to connect with an invalid CA in the primary. This is also mentioned in line 86.

1. In the `Azure Portal`_, navigate to :guilabel:`IoT Hub` and select the desired IoT hub.
#. In the overview page, locate and copy the ``Hostname`` and configure :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_HOSTNAME` to this address.

   The hostname can also be set at run time.
#. Set the option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_DEVICE_ID` to the device ID.

>    The device ID must match the device ID used while creating the certificates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The device ID must match with the one used while creating the certificates.
```

>    You can also set he device ID at run time by populating the ``device_id`` member of the :c:struct:`azure_iot_hub_config` structure passed to the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function when connecting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You can also set the device ID at run time by populating the ``device_id`` member of the :c:struct:`azure_iot_hub_config` structure passed to the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function when connecting.
```

#. In the overview page, locate and copy the ``ID Scope`` and set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_DPS_ID_SCOPE` option to this string.

   Alternatively, you can set the registration ID at run time.
#. Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_DPS_REG_ID` option to the registration ID.

   You can also set the registration ID at run time.
#. Set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SEC_TAG` to the security tag used while :ref:`azure_iot_hub_flash_certs`.
   Optionally, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SEC_TAG` option if multiple server certificates are provisioned.

Application integration
***********************

Initializing the library
========================

The library is initialized by calling the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_init` function.
The initialization must be successful to make the other APIs in the library available for the application.
An event handler is passed as the only argument to the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_init` function.
The library calls this function with data associated to the application, such as incoming data and other events.
For an exhaustive list of event types and associated data, see :c:enum:`azure_iot_hub_evt_type`.

> 

Reviewer 3: Remove an extra empty line.

			.size = device_id_len,
		},

      /* Can be left out to use CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_DPS_ID_SCOPE instead. */
      .id_scope = {
			.ptr = id_scope_buf,
			.size = id_scope_len,
		},
	};

	err = azure_iot_hub_dps_init(&dps_cfg);
   /* Error handling */

   err = azure_iot_hub_dps_start();
	if (err == 0) {
		LOG_INF("The DPS process has started");

      /* Wait for the registration process to complete. */
      err = k_sem_take(&dps_done_sem, K_SECONDS(SOME_TIMEOUT));
      /* Error handling */
	} else if (err == -EALREADY) {
		LOG_INF("Already assigned to an IoT hub, skipping DPS");
	} else {
      /* Error handling */
	}
	err = azure_iot_hub_dps_hostname_get(assigned_hostname);
   /* Error handling */

	err = azure_iot_hub_dps_device_id_get(assigned_device_id);
   /* Error handling */

   /* Use the hostname and device ID to connect to IoT Hub. */

After successfully registering the device, the application can proceed to connect to the assigned IoT Hub using the obtained device ID.

When a device has been assigned to an IoT Hub and the information is stored to the non-volatile memory, the DPS APIs always return the stored information and do not trigger a new registration.

> To delete the stored assignment information, call the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_reset` function to delete all information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To delete the stored assignment information, call the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_reset` function.
```

Alternatively, you can call the functions :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_hostname_delete` or :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_device_id_delete` to delete specific information.

> After calling the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_reset` function, the library must be initialized again, after which a new registration with the DPS can be started by calling the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_start` function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After calling the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_reset` function, the library must be initialized again.
After the initialization, a new registration with the DPS can be started by calling the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_dps_start` function.
```

The DPS APIs are documented in the :ref:`azure_iot_hub_dps_api` section.

Connecting to Azure IoT Hub
===========================

After the initialization, calling the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function connects the device to the configured IoT hub or DPS instance, depending on the configuration.
The initial TLS handshake takes a few seconds to complete, depending on the network conditions and the TLS cipher suite used.
During the TLS handshake, the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function blocks.
Consider this when deciding the context from which the API is called.
Optionally, DPS registration can be run automatically as part of the call to the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function.
Note that the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function blocks when DPS registration is pending.

> Running DPS as part of the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function also limits the DPS configuration options in several ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Running DPS as part of the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function also limits the DPS configuration options as follows:
```

* The device ID is used as registration ID when registering with the DPS server.
* The ID scope is set in the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_DPS_ID_SCOPE` option.

Use the DPS APIs directly if you need more control over the DPS registration process.

When using the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function, you can choose to provide the hostname to the IoT Hub and device ID at run time, or let the library use Kconfig options.

Here is an example for setting the hostname and device ID at run time:

.. code-block:: c

   struct azure_iot_hub_config cfg = {
      .hostname = {
         .ptr = hostname_buffer,
         .size = hostname_length,
      },
      .device_id = {
         .ptr = device_id_buffer,
         .size = device_id_length,
      },
      .use_dps = false,
   };

   err = azure_iot_hub_connect(&cfg);
   /* Error handling */

> You can pass ``NULL`` or a zeroed out configuration to the :c:func:`azure_iot_hub_connect` function.

Reviewer 3: Not so sure about "zeroed out". How about an empty configuration? Or a configuration with no value?

Reviewer 3: Cannot argue it is wrong. Maybe "cleared out" if you like, but we can leave it as it is. Up to you.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SEC_TAG` - Security tag where the Azure IoT Hub certificates are stored.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_SECONDARY_SEC_TAG` - Secondary security tag that can be used for a seconds CA root certificate.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_PORT` - TCP port number to connect to.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MQTT_RX_TX_BUFFER_LEN` - Size of the MQTT RX and TX buffer that limits how large messages can be, excluding the payload size.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MQTT_PAYLOAD_BUFFER_LEN` - MQTT payload buffer size.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_STACK_SIZE` - Stack size for the internal thread in the library.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_AUTO_DEVICE_TWIN_REQUEST` - Automatically request the device thiw upon connection to an IoT Hub.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_TOPIC_MAX_LEN` - The maximum topic length. The topic buffers are allocated on the stack, and this option may have to be adjusted with your device ID length.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MSG_PROPERTY_RECV_MAX_COUNT` - The maximum message properties count that can be parsed from an incoming message's topic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MSG_PROPERTY_RECV_MAX_COUNT` - The maximum number of message properties that can be parsed from an incoming message's topic.
```

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MSG_PROPERTY_BUFFER_SIZE` - The size of the internal message property buffer used when sending messages with message properties, allocated on the stack. This size can be adjusted to fit your needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MSG_PROPERTY_BUFFER_SIZE` - The size of the internal message property buffer used when sending messages with message properties, allocated on the stack. You can adjust this to fit your needs.
```

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MQTT_PAYLOAD_BUFFER_LEN` - MQTT payload buffer size.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_STACK_SIZE` - Stack size for the internal thread in the library.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_AUTO_DEVICE_TWIN_REQUEST` - Automatically request the device twin upon connection to an IoT Hub.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_TOPIC_MAX_LEN` - The maximum topic length. The topic buffers are allocated on the stack. You may have to adjust this option to match with your device ID length.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MSG_PROPERTY_RECV_MAX_COUNT` - The maximum number of message properties that can be parsed from an incoming message's topic.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_MSG_PROPERTY_BUFFER_SIZE` - The size of the internal message property buffer used when sending messages with message properties, allocated on the stack. You can adjust this to fit your needs.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_AZURE_IOT_HUB_NATIVE_TLS` - Configures the socket to be native for TLS instead of offloading TLS operations to the modem.

> Configuration specific to DPS:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DPS-specific configuration:
```
